Idea/Content Credit:
Michael Choi / Village 88, Inc
Source: https://www.hackerhero.com/communication

#Introduction
Knowing how to communicate effectively to your team member as well as to your supervisor(s) is really important. For developers, 
this communication skill set may be as important as your coding skills.

A bad coder with poor communication skills leads to getting fired.
A bad coder with great communication skills leads to a mediocre employee.
A great coder with poor communication skills leads to a mediocre employee.
A great coder with great communication skills leads to a great employee.
Here in this course, I will outline some of the key principles that I think are important. These skills apply to all roles and not just to developers. 
  These observations come from self-reflection and also from managing various employees, contractors, and executives. 
  I will also invite other folks to share their experience and share tips.

Disclaimer
1. Depending on the company you work for, the core values that are important for them may be different than the core values that I am presenting in this course. 
You can still be flexible and adjust based on your circumstance.
2. There is no ONE right answer. There are many right answers. Find an approach that you're comfortable with and do not be afraid of making mistakes and looking stupid/foolish. 
Everyone learns by making mistakes and you'll make mistakes too but people are generally kind and will forgive your mistakes if you're honest and you're making efforts to improve.
3. I am not a master in communications. If this is your first time learning topics related to communications, you can use this course as one of your first stepping stones 
to improve your communication skills. Then continue learning how to communicate more effectively as a team member, supervisor, etc. Learning how to communicate effectively 
is a lifetime pursuit.

Being vs Portraying

  
#Core Value: Be Proactive
a. Don't wait to be told what to do. Proactively seek how you can add more value.
b. Proactively think about what the next move for your supervisor would be, and proactively find ways to save time for the supervisor.
This will grant you a lot more freedom to work the way you want.
c. If you were asked for an update, you're already late. Be proactive and provide updates BEFORE your supervisor/client asks for one.
d. Proactively focus on results and not just on tasks.
e. When providing an update, make sure you've met all the instructions from your supervisor. Do NOT cause your supervisor to repeat instructions AFTER you've already provided an update, 
saying your update was incomplete. Supervisors hate this, especially if they are already super busy.

Scenario 1: A New Task
Your supervisor has given you a new task over email. Should you email back? Or is it okay to not respond back as some of the instructions 
for the task were already discussed with you in the prior hand? How quickly would you respond?
My Answer: Yes, I should email back within minutes during workdays and within hours during weekend, the email may contain information
saying that you got the email.
Recommendation: You should always email back ... maybe you don't need to reply all ... but you need let the supervisor know that you got 
the new task and understood the instruction

Scenario 2: Clumsy Update
The supervisor has asked you to provide an update on your work by the end of the day. The end of the day has come but the supervisor has 
not gotten any update from you. The next morning, the update comes back with an apology that it's late. To make the matter worse, 
the supervisor was expecting you to email a few other people but the email seemed to indicate it was only sent to you... 
The supervisor also asked for an update on X, Y, and Z, but you have only provided an update on Y and Z... 
The supervisor has to email you back where they have to write back to you asking for additional things... 
Every keystroke the supervisor makes, the supervisor is wondering why their time is being wasted having to repeat instructions over again...

My answer: It's absolutely horrible to not give any updates after the supervisor asked me to provide an update by the end of the day.
I will take my initiative and send the email to few other people. Whether the X is not yet done, I must provide an update about X with Y 
and Z.
Recommendation: Do not ever make mistake, re-read any communication with your supervisor to understand the instruction

Scenario 3: Family Emergency
You have a family emergency. Something happened and you needed to leave work immediately to take care of one of your family members. 
You notified your HR by a text message saying how you have to take the whole day off. The HR responded back saying they hope everything 
works out. Once the family situation was resolved, it is already very late around 11 PM your time. It's also weekend the next day and you 
don't want to interrupt your supervisor or the HR folks, especially as you know they are busy people and you don't want to distract them. 
You instead decide to come back to work on Monday and on Monday morning, you decide to then let your supervisor and HR folks know. 
What could have gone better in this situation?

Recommendation: You need to let the supervisor know about the emergency and send an update via email or slack containing a short message what's going on

Scenario 4: Busy Supervisor
Your supervisor is extremely busy but you are not that satisfied with work. In fact, you're not even sure if you really belong to this 
company and the team as the supervisor doesn't seem to really appreciate what you've done. You're putting in the hours and doing all the 
things that the supervisor has asked you to do, although inside, you know you can do more. However, you are hesitant to do more, as you 
have other tasks at home and you're afraid that if you put in a lot more hours at work, your quality of life may go down (as you will be 
too busy with work). Plus, you're not getting paid enough already. Maybe, if you get the promotion, you will then start working more 
hours and do more responsibilities?

Recommendation: Maybe the company don't deserve you but don't pause your career growth because of these reasons. Like for example, you are level 10
at work, and do you want to stay on the same level for the next five years because of the same reasons?

Scenario 5: 2-hour Task
Your supervisor has casually asked you to look into something. The supervisor mentioned this in one of the meetings but has not provided 
any deadline for this. It's something you can do in about 2 hours. You're debating whether you should do this immediately (and put all 
other tasks behind this task) or whether it's okay to do this later in the week. You're not sure and not sure how to approach this task.

My answer: I will ask the supervisor about these thing via email if this something is urgent or not.
Recommendation: Email the supervisor to confirm about this task and add apology because you are not sure if the supervisor want you to finish
this task immediately or not. (If the information can be conveyed in a few minutes, send an email and if not or more than a few minutes then
set-up a meeting minimum of 1 hour meeting.

Scenario 6: 60-hour Task
The same scenario as above but the task the supervisor has asked you to do is something that will require about 60 hours of work. 
You're already swamped with a lot of other tasks (a majority of which your supervisor already knows about and which there are concrete 
deadlines for these other tasks also). What would you do in this scenario?

Recommendation: Email your supervisor to inquire about the acceptable deadline for the task. If it's earlier than expected, present your top task 
priorities and inquire about your supervisor's preference on adjusting these priorities to accommodate the needs. Ensure it is a two-way 
conversation.

Scenario 7: Been Two Weeks
You have been working diligently as a valuable member of your team. Your supervisor is extremely busy and doesn't like to be disturbed. 
It has already been close to two weeks since you had a 1:1 meeting with your supervisor and where you were able to give your latest 
update on your project. You are not even sure if the supervisor knows about the projects you're working on as the supervisor has not 
given you a specific deadline for some of the future tasks and the supervisor has not scheduled any meetings to receive an update. 
You're not sure how to approach this. Should you call the supervisor, email the supervisor, send a message over Slack??? You don't want 
to disturb the supervisor after all.

Recommedation: As the project has already been close to two weeks, you should provide a weekly update, even if the supervisor doesn't ask
for one. The email should be brief and concise. Also, present your top priority projects and ask to confirm if the list looks appropriate 
for your supervisor's needs.

Scenario 8: Update from Slack
Your team uses Slack heavily. Your supervisor also likes to use Slack to communicate with the team members that the supervisor manages. 
One day, your supervisor has sent a message to everyone that the supervisor manages (a total of 10 people). The message says something 
short like this: "Hi Team. Next Wednesday, we're going to have a meeting to discuss projects A, B, and C." The message did not require 
you to respond and no one has replied to the message yet. You're wondering whether you should write something in response or whether 
it's okay as this was more of an announcement anyway.

Recommendation: Use reaction features to information that you got the message or add short message.

#Core Value: Honor Commitments
Whatever you personally commit, do everything in your power to deliver what you promised on time. Failure to do everything you could 
have done will result in a loss of trust.

#Core Value: Go Extra Miles or Over-Deliver
- similar to proactive
C players do a mediocre job of performing the tasks given.
B players do a great job of performing the tasks given.
A players not only perform a great job on the tasks given but go the extra mile to do things that were not asked (yet).

Satisfaction = Expectation - What's been delivered

A player - You delivered more than what they expected
A player is not driven by fear but love, love for their team, client or people they are serving

Scenario 1: 50-hour Project
You have been working on a project for a while and have collectively put in about 50 hours for this project. Your supervisor has asked 
you to complete tasks A, B, and C. You have already put in enough time and feel like you've completed all three tasks. After taking a 
lesson on 'over-delivering' , you start thinking about the question: "what more can I do to add more value?" and you come up with a list 
of 2 other tasks that could make a meaningful difference. You look into these two tasks where one task would take you 10 more hours and 
another task that would take you 30 more hours. Which task you should do? How would you prioritize your time?

Answer:
Scenario of over-delivering in a work project.
Considerations for prioritizing time and tasks.
Suggested approach to navigating the situation.

Scenario 2: Managing a Team
You have a team that you're managing. The client you work for has been a great client for you and you have a very strong relationship 
with the client. The client is reasonable in terms of the workload and expectations and has been satisfied with your team's performance. 
What would an A player think in these scenarios? What would a B player think in these scenarios?

Answer:
"A players" are always thinking about adding more value to serve their customers.

Scenario 3: High Expectations
You are managing a team and together with your team, you have done wonderful things for the company. You're super proud of your team yet 
your supervisor doesn't seem to be as excited/happy about your team's performance. You were puzzled for a while until one day you 
approached your supervisor and had a good heart-to-heart discussion with your supervisor. You found out that your supervisor had high 
expectations for you, partly because you also promised a lot of great things for the supervisor from the beginning of the project. 
You were able to deliver, mostly, but sometimes some of the tasks were not delivered exactly on time or up to the specs required. 90% of 
your work was good though and no other team could have done what your team could have done. Plus, you and your team were spending extra 
time every weekend to get these features done. You feel undervalued and underappreciated. Maybe it's time to start looking for another 
supervisor who can really appreciate the work you're putting in. After all, why is it your fault that the supervisor has such a high 
expectation from you, right?

Answer:
Being timely is more important than unfinished work.
Proactively seeking feedback from supervisors is crucial for effective working relationships.
Regularly requesting feedback shows consideration and promotes healthy working relationships.

#Core Value: Avoid Judgment on Character
When two people interact, words/facial expressions are exchanged. How one feels, from each interaction, is genuine and something you can 
freely communicate. How one judges another person's character to be due to that interaction is NOT right.
Note that this is not the same as being judgmental on one's performance at work. At work, we cannot avoid having to judge someone's 
performance, especially if we're a manager and we're being judged on our work based on metrics. We can, at work, judge whether the work 
was good or bad, but judging whether someone is good or bad or ____ or ____ is not something we should do.  
Again, for managers, ** judgment on one's performance is completely okay**; it's judgment on one's character that we should try to avoid.

Scenario 1: An Argument in the Team
You have a pretty good team. Your supervisor is good and your teammates are good... mostly. In fact, there is this one colleague of yours 
who really gets on your nerve. Every time you speak, he interrupts. When you're speaking, he doesn't seem to be listening or paying 
attention. He also seems to avoid having to talk to you. You made honest efforts, several times, to get to know this teammate but for 
some reason, he doesn't seem to like you! He avoids situations where he would be 1:1 with you. At the last meeting, he interrupted you 
while you were making a presentation, and made a few remarks where you and others in the room were rolling eyes and thinking, "what's 
wrong with this guy?". You decided to just ignore this person but still deep inside, you're feeling a lot of anger and resentment toward 
this person. You were holding up until one day, finally, this person triggered your built-up emotion, and you explode.

Answer:
Learning to be more emotionally intelligent and improve communication skills.
Understanding that some people may have other priorities and it's not your responsibility to know everything about them.
Maintain professionalism and don't feel the need to be friends with everyone.
Acknowledge and respect your emotions, but don't suppress them.

Scenario 2: A Team Member with Below-average Performance
You took over a new team and one of the employees continues to struggle. You took time to meet with this employee 1:1 to find out what 
happened and why the employee is not able to perform. It has already been several weeks but the person doesn't seem to improve. 
You inquire if there is anything special going at home, but as far as you can tell, there is not something special going on. 
What should you do? Should you fire this person now? Or should you wait a few more weeks before firing them?

Answer:
Take time to understand and support struggling team members before making judgments.
Avoid making quick judgments about employees' character.
Give employees time and support to improve before considering termination.
Make performance judgments, not character judgments, when evaluating employees.

Scenario 3: A difficult person
Your team is quite good and you enjoy working with your team. Most of the teammates have similar personalities as you. Your team is open,
friendly, and courteous. New members join the team and your personalities just don't mesh. In fact, it seems to really collide. 
This person actually reminds you of someone in your past that have bullied you. The way this person smiles, talks, etc, just rubs against 
your skin. Maybe it is really because this person reminds you of someone in your past that you don't want to remember. You know this 
person didn't do anything wrong to you and you try not to judge this person but you can't help it... No matter how much effort you have 
tried in the past, you just can't seem to get along with this person. What should you do? Should you try to overcome your past and become 
a friend to this person?

Answer:
It's okay to not be friends with everyone on the team, but it's important to be respectful.
Avoiding interactions with a difficult team member due to past triggers is acceptable and can be communicated to the supervisor.
It's okay to skip meetings if you're not ready for them.
Developing emotional intelligence takes time and exposure to different perspectives.
Learning self-compassion and avoiding self-judgment is important in personal growth.
Embracing emotions and being true to them, rather than suppressing or hiding them.
Practicing self-compassion and not labeling oneself with negative keywords.
Changing oneself for the better will naturally improve communication and reflection of who we are.

#Core Values: Honesty
As a general rule, it's always good, to be honest. 
Being honest/transparent builds trust. However, this doesn't mean you have to openly share everything about yourself with everyone. 
In other words, be honest about things when asked. Information that does not need to be shared, do not voluntarily share with the world.

Scenario 1: Breakthrough Week
You are working for a client. You've built a great relationship with this client and have worked with this client for 3 years now. 
There is a high degree of trust. It's now time to bill your client for the work you've performed. You didn't really track all the hours 
you've put into the project but you know you have roughly put in 40-45 hours of work. Now, you did some really neat work and found a way 
to really do things efficiently last week that allowed you to solve a problem in a few hours of time that would have normally taken you 
20 hours to do. Therefore, you know you could bill the client for 55 hours of work and the client would happily pay that amount. What 
should you do in this situation? That extra 10 hours of pay could be very meaningful for you and your family, especially as you just had 
a baby 2 months ago and could really use that extra cash. How many hours would you bill for and why?

Answer:
Consider the importance of honesty and trust.

Scenario 2: Social Media
At work, you sometimes use Social Media, especially during your break time. Sometimes you spend time on Facebook, sometimes on Twitter, 
or read the news. This helps you recharge and give your brain a much-needed rest. In the past, you've spent a lot of hours without these 
necessary 'breaks' and you found that having these short breaks in between is increasing your productivity. Now that you took a course on
'honesty', you are not sure whether you should keep taking these breaks or whether you should clock in/out each time that you're taking 
these breaks. What should you do? Would you email your supervisor and ask what you should do? Is that asking for too much help? Would the
supervisor think you're in-competent to even make a decision like this? What if the supervisor asks you to deduct all the hours you've 
spent in the past for taking all these 'breaks'?

Answer: 
Taking breaks is healthy and increases productivity.
Approaching the supervisor about break time requires tact and professionalism.
Supervisors expect professionalism and may have specific break time expectations.
Taking short breaks to recharge and stay productive.
Being honest about mistakes but not over-sharing with supervisors.
Considering the level of disclosure based on your role and responsibilities.

Scenario 3: Colleagues using Social Media
You find that some of your colleagues use Facebook all the time! In fact, you know they are getting paid and they are reporting that they 
are working when in fact, they are on Facebook or YouTube for 3-4 hours a day! You don't want to bring it up directly to the colleague as 
you don't want to ruin your relationship with this person. Should you report this to your supervisor, whom this employee also reports to? 
Should you talk directly to the colleague to have them fix their behavior?

Answer:
If colleagues are dishonestly using social media at work, consider the strength of your relationship before addressing the issue.
Overstepping boundaries by trying to change a colleague's behavior may not be your responsibility.
Avoid directly confronting colleagues about their behavior without authority (16:11)
Build trust with the supervisor before reporting issues discreetly (17:36)
Respect the right processes for addressing poor performance and avoid overstepping boundaries (19:55)
Supervisor considers employee's contribution and potential downsides before making a decision.
It's important to avoid making judgments on the employee's character and to approach the situation with compassion.
Focus on making a positive impact within your realm of responsibilities.

#Core Value: Own Mistake
Everyone makes mistakes. However,

C players don't own their mistakes and try to hide them.
B players recognize mistakes but don't change their behavior.
A players recognize mistakes AND change their behavior.

Scenario 1: Client Unhappy
You just made a horrible mistake, one that you're not proud of. You're unlucky that the client you're working for, is very new, and you 
haven't build a strong relationship yet with the client. In essence, you lost 1 year's worth of data that the client has accumulated and 
which the client worked so hard for. You feel horrible. You're working as a freelancer for the project and have only worked on the project
for 3 months and received monetary compensation of $X for the work. You're very tight with finances, and although you wish you could refund 
some of the money that the customer already paid you, you're just not financially able to do that. You debate what you should do with the 
client. The client is extremely unhappy with the situation and wants to terminate/fire you. You can't blame the client as this was 
something you've caused. What would you do in this situation?

Answer:
Unhappy client due to a major mistake; freelancer unable to refund money but suggests taking responsibility and offering additional 
unpaid work.
Make an apology.

Scenario 2: A Missed Deadline
You had a meeting scheduled in the morning that was supposed to go for an hour and a half. Some things happened and you were 30 minutes 
late to the meeting! By the time you've walked into the meeting, 3 of the 5 attendees have already left although 2 attendees were still 
there waiting for you. You are feeling nervous and you're not sure what you should do now. Should you try to move the meeting to another 
time? Should you try to get the other 3 folks to come back? Even if they were all back, should you just go ahead and do the presentation? 
But what if there is just no way to present what you were planning to do in 60 minutes?

Answer:
Late to a meeting with attendees already leaving; suggests apologizing, discussing options with remaining attendees, and taking 
responsibility for the mistake.

